docs/guides/developer/docs/api/agents-api.md, before:

[TOC]
# General

The Agents API is available since API version 1.1.0.

### GET /api/agents

Returns a list of capture agents.

Query String Parameter | Type                        | Description
:----------------------|:----------------------------|:-----------
`limit`                | [`integer`](types.md#basic) | The maximum number of results to return for a single request
`offset`               | [`integer`](types.md#basic) | Number of results to skip based on the limit. 0 is the first set of results up to the limit, 1 is the second set of results after the first limit, 2 is third set of results after skipping the first two sets of results etc


__Sample request__

```xml
https://opencast.example.org/api/agents?limit=5&offset=1
```

__Response__

`200 (OK)`: A (potentially empty) list of capture agents is returned as JSON array of JSON objects

Field      | Type                                 | Description
:----------|:-------------------------------------|:-----------
`agent_id` | [`string`](types.md#basic)           | The technical identifier of the capture agent
`status`   | [`string`](types.md#basic)           | The status of the capture agent
`inputs`   | [`array[string]`](types.md#array)    | The inputs of the capture agent
`update`   | [`datetime`](types.md#date-and-time) | The last date and time this capture agent contactec the server
`url`      | [`string`](types.md#basic)           | The URL as reported by the capture agent


__Example__

```
[
  {
    "agent_id": "ca24",
    "status": "offline",
    "inputs": ["default"],
    "update": "2018-03-12T18:17:25Z",
    "url": "127.0.0.1"
  }
]
```

### GET /api/agents/{agent_id}

Returns a single capture agent.

__Response__

`200 (OK)`: The capture agent is returned as JSON object

Field      | Type                                 | Description
:----------|:-------------------------------------|:-----------
`agent_id` | [`string`](types.md#basic)           | The technical identifier of the capture agent
`status`   | [`string`](types.md#basic)           | The status of the capture agent
`inputs`   | [`array[string]`](types.md#array)    | The inputs of the capture agent
`update`   | [`datetime`](types.md#date-and-time) | The last date and time this capture agent contactec the server
`url`      | [`string`](types.md#string)          | The URL as reported by the capture agent


`404 (NOT FOUND)`: The specified capture agent does not exist.

__Example__

```
{
  "agent_id": "ca24",
  "status": "offline",
  "inputs": ["default"],
  "update": "2018-03-12T18:17:25Z",
  "url": "127.0.0.1"
}
```

Commit message:

Unify documentation of pagination across
Although the paginations is actually implemented the same way for all endpoints of the External API, the documentation was sometimes wrong and sometimes not consistent. This commit unifies the documentation of the query parameters 'offset' and 'limit' across the External API specification and the REST Docs.

docs/guides/developer/docs/api/agents-api.md, after:

[TOC]
# General

The Agents API is available since API version 1.1.0.

### GET /api/agents

Returns a list of capture agents.

Query String Parameter | Type                        | Description
:----------------------|:----------------------------|:-----------
`limit`                | [`integer`](types.md#basic) | The maximum number of results to return for a single request (see [Pagination](usage.md#pagination))
`offset`               | [`integer`](types.md#basic) | The index of the first result to return (see [Pagination](usage.md#pagination))


__Sample request__

```xml
https://opencast.example.org/api/agents?limit=5&offset=1
```

__Response__

`200 (OK)`: A (potentially empty) list of capture agents is returned as JSON array of JSON objects

Field      | Type                                 | Description
:----------|:-------------------------------------|:-----------
`agent_id` | [`string`](types.md#basic)           | The technical identifier of the capture agent
`status`   | [`string`](types.md#basic)           | The status of the capture agent
`inputs`   | [`array[string]`](types.md#array)    | The inputs of the capture agent
`update`   | [`datetime`](types.md#date-and-time) | The last date and time this capture agent contactec the server
`url`      | [`string`](types.md#basic)           | The URL as reported by the capture agent


__Example__

```
[
  {
    "agent_id": "ca24",
    "status": "offline",
    "inputs": ["default"],
    "update": "2018-03-12T18:17:25Z",
    "url": "127.0.0.1"
  }
]
```

### GET /api/agents/{agent_id}

Returns a single capture agent.

__Response__

`200 (OK)`: The capture agent is returned as JSON object

Field      | Type                                 | Description
:----------|:-------------------------------------|:-----------
`agent_id` | [`string`](types.md#basic)           | The technical identifier of the capture agent
`status`   | [`string`](types.md#basic)           | The status of the capture agent
`inputs`   | [`array[string]`](types.md#array)    | The inputs of the capture agent
`update`   | [`datetime`](types.md#date-and-time) | The last date and time this capture agent contactec the server
`url`      | [`string`](types.md#string)          | The URL as reported by the capture agent


`404 (NOT FOUND)`: The specified capture agent does not exist.

__Example__

```
{
  "agent_id": "ca24",
  "status": "offline",
  "inputs": ["default"],
  "update": "2018-03-12T18:17:25Z",
  "url": "127.0.0.1"
}
```
